Great movies, great commercials and great presentations
appeal to emotions (thuds fist on chest).
You set the tone and the soundtrack for your life
and for your presentations, okay, and we'll talk about music
and presentations in act four, scene two.
Okay, so in your presentation I want you
to think of certain emotions
that you want to appeal to.
I want you to be passionate and inspirational and creative,
not just with your slides, but with the content
and how you articulate and structure your thoughts.
So think about the first time you heard a song
that made the hair on the back of your neck wanna stand up.
Okay, think of how that awesome sonic architecture
made you feel inspired, optimistic,
full of hope and unstoppable.
Okay, emotions.
Think of the time in your life when you were surrounded
by loved ones at maximum exuberance.
Think of that epic moment in your life
and replicate how you felt,
how your loved ones felt,
how your colleagues felt.
I want you to recreate that moment in your mind
so you can not only appeal to emotions when you present,
but also feel it (thuds fist on chest) in your heart,
your mind, your soul, in every cell that makes you.
And so my personal example is two events,
one was in 1993 when I was with my friends
and Joe Carter hit a home run to win the World Series
for my baseball team, the Toronto Blue Jays.
Okay, and the other moment for me was more recently,
a couple years ago, in 2015, when my three sons and I
lost our voices because Jose Bautista,
our favorite baseball player,
hit a home run and we couldn't contain our enthusiasms.
So, think of an event you personally defied the odds
and surprised everyone, especially yourself,
because an accomplishment in your life.
Okay, now I mention all this because without passion
in our hearts and in our minds
when we present, we can't reach our full potential
and we can't inspire others, okay?
Now, some of you are watching this and thinking,
"Wait a second, Chris,
"my company is so conservative I can't be different,
"I have to conform to the corporate culture here."
Well, my humble challenging response is no more
and never again, no more conforming,
you know, no more suppressing emotions,
you know, no more suppressing who you are,
no more not being you, no more and never again.
You have friends and those that love you
because of who you are and your emotions, right?
Those people love you because you are you,
no more presenting and not being you ever again, okay?
Otherwise what's the point,
what are we here for anyway, right?
Don't try to be someone else, be you, okay?
I want you inspire and empower your audience
who are your friends, okay, they love you,
they love you for who you are
and not for who you're tryin' to be.
Now, as a quick side note,
if you're having problems getting into an inspirational
or great emotional (snaps fingers) state
to write your masterpiece of a speech
listen to this in the background
or any classical music that is inspiring.
You know, sometimes I like to,
I just go to Spotify and listen
to what are called Soundscapes,
which is just music from, classical music in a words,
from awesome movies, right?
You know, scores or musical pieces that really inspire me
are movies like Interstellar,
listen to that soundtrack, it is off the charts, right?
Or a great baseball one for me is the movie The Natural,
where Robert Redford hits this incredible home run
at a very old age and the music in the background,
you know, it just really makes the movie, right?
So listen to music like that, Soundscapes, if you want,
or classical music that would get you
into that frame of mind or even something peaceful
and relaxing and Enya, whatever it takes, okay?
Now, it's crucial to tap into the right emotions
when you present, this is what Bollywood
and Hollywood films do really well, okay?
I love this scene from Pixar's Ratatouille
where the chef, who is me and who is you,
prepares the ultimate food presentation
and appeals to emotions of a difficult man,
okay, appeals to emotions of that customer, okay?
You know, this man, this customer is so hard
to get through to that you will never
have to present anyone this difficult emotionally
or emotionally communicate with them
and this strict food critic loved
the restaurant presentation experience
only because it reminded him of his life
and the food his mom used to cook for him.
You see, the chef appealed to emotion.
Okay, so pause me please and check out this video
as it's incredibly touching emotionally.
(beautiful classy music)
Okay, and when I say that you and me are the chef
I'm not saying you're a rat, I just am.
Okay, whatever, sorry.
Okay, now, I wanna also talk about experiences of yours
that address emotions and examples from your life, okay?
Another Pixar example here, it's relevant,
remember the So What test?
It's relevant.
In 2008 I met a guy that worked at Pixar
and I asked him what movie are you working on now
and he said, "Well, Chris, we're making this film
"about this older man and this little kid
"and they use balloons to pick up a house
"and they travel somewhere."
And I remember at that time how foolish I was
'cause I said this, right, I said,
why would you do that,
that's an absolute merchandising nightmare,
you'll never be able to sell toys like that.
You know,, why would you do this, right?
And he said, "At Pixar we don't care,"
but he said it in a nice way,
he said, "We make movies from our hearts
"that appeal to emotions, real emotions,"
and now Up is actually my favorite Pixar movie.
And one of my favorite soundtracks as well,
it's a great piece, I love it, I love it,
I think it's the best, probably the best Pixar
they've ever made, in my humble opinion, okay.
So, why am I bothering you with this, so what?
Because I want you to know that appealing to emotions
is important when you present,
you know, whether it's a wedding presentation
or a less happy occasion,
or a company speech, a toast,
and many other types of speeches.
Okay, last Pixar mention, I promise,
but if you have a moment, please, please, please watch
this short video here and feel the emotional
and think about how you might be able to somehow incorporate
a few emotions into your masterpiece of a speech
from this masterpiece
of an emotional rollercoaster of a scene.
So, again, watch this video and then please come back to me.
Now, welcome back.
Did you notice how many emotions you felt during that video?
The amazing thing is there wasn't even one word
spoken in it, okay?
That was a beautiful story told without words, okay?
We can visualize and feel emotions by discussing
personal anecdotes or relevant examples in our speech
from real examples in our lives, keep it real, you be you.
Now, I'm not saying to create
a four-minute emotional rollercoaster
exactly like that video,
but small 20 seconds of sound bites (snaps fingers)
or stories or personal examples of yours
really help to add astounding character development
or descriptive divinity or whatever you might call it.
People might not remember what you said
but they'll never forget how you made them feel.